ss="chapter"> Import Objective-C extensions as class members in UIKit Since Xcode 14.1, some methods from Objective-C classes have been moved to category members. That led to the generation of a different Kotlin API, and these methods were imported as Kotlin extensions instead of methods. You may have experienced issues resulting from this when overriding methods using UIKit. For example, it became impossible to override drawRect() or layoutSubviews() methods when subclassing a UIVIew in Kotlin. Since 1.8.20, category members that are declared in the same headers as NSView and UIView classes are imported as members of these classes. This means that the methods subclassing from NSView and UIView can be easily overridden, like any other method. If everything goes well, we're planning to enable this behavior by default for all of the Objective-C classes. Reimplementation of compiler cache management in the compiler To speed up the evolution of compiler caches, we've moved compiler cache management from the Kotlin Gradle plugin to the Kotlin/Native compiler. This unblocks work on several important improvements, including those to do with compilation times and compiler cache flexibility. If you encounter some problem and need to return to the old behavior, use the kotlin.native.cacheOrchestration=gradle Gradle property. We would appreciate your feedback on this in YouTrack . Deprecation of useLibraries() in Cocoapods Gradle plugin Kotlin 1.8.20 starts the deprecation cycle of the useLibraries() function used in the CocoaPods integration for static libraries. We introduced the useLibraries() function to allow dependencies on Pods containing static libraries. With time, this case has become very rare. Most of the Pods are distributed by sources, and Objective-C frameworks or XCFrameworks are a common choice for binary distribution. Since this function is unpopular and it creates issues that complicate the development of the Kotlin CocoaPods Gradle plugin, we've decided to deprecate it. For more information on frameworks and XCFrameworks, see Build final native binaries . Kotlin Multiplatform Kotlin 1.8.20 strives to improve the developer experience with the following updates to Kotlin Multiplatform: New approach for setting up source set hierarchy Preview of Gradle composite builds support in Kotlin Multiplatform Improved output for Gradle errors in Xcode New approach to source set hierarchy The new approach to source set hierarchy is Experimental . It may be changed in future Kotlin releases without prior 
