dia/blob/main/docs/coroutines/Suspend%20functions.md" id="-be3fin_439" data-external="true" rel="noopener noreferrer">Kotlin-Swift interopedia . Extensions and category members Members of Objective-C categories and Swift extensions are generally imported to Kotlin as extensions. That's why these declarations can't be overridden in Kotlin, and the extension initializers aren't available as Kotlin constructors. Currently, there are two exceptions. Starting with Kotlin 1.8.20, category members that are declared in the same headers as the NSView class (from the AppKit framework) or UIView classes (from the UIKit framework) are imported as members of these classes. This means that you can override methods that subclass from NSView or UIView. Kotlin extensions to &quot;regular&quot; Kotlin classes are imported to Swift and Objective-C as extensions and category members, respectively. Kotlin extensions to other types are treated as top-level declarations with an additional receiver parameter. These types include: Kotlin String type Kotlin collection types and subtypes Kotlin interface types Kotlin primitive types Kotlin inline classes Kotlin Any type Kotlin function types and subtypes Objective-C classes and protocols See a collection of examples in the Kotlin-Swift interopedia . Kotlin singletons Kotlin singleton (made with an object declaration, including companion object ) is imported to Swift/Objective-C as a class with a single instance. The instance is available through the shared and companion properties. For the following Kotlin code: object MyObject { val x = &quot;Some value&quot; } class MyClass { companion object { val x = &quot;Some value&quot; } } Access these objects as follows: MyObject.shared MyObject.shared.x MyClass.companion MyClass.Companion.shared Access objects through [MySingleton mySingleton] in Objective-C and MySingleton() in Swift has been deprecated. See more examples in the Kotlin-Swift interopedia: How to access Kotlin objects using shared How to access members of Kotlin companion objects from Swift . Primitive types Kotlin primitive type boxes are mapped to special Swift/Objective-C classes. For example, the kotlin.Int box is represented as the KotlinInt class instance in Swift (or the ${prefix}Int instance in Objective-C, where prefix is the framework's name prefix). These classes are derived from NSNumber , so the instances are proper NSNumber s supporting all corresponding operations. The NSNumber type is not automatically translated to Kotlin primitive types when used as a Swift/Objective-C parameter type or return value. The reason is that the NSNumber type doesn't provide enough information about a wrapped primitive value type, for example, NSNumber is statically not known to be Byte , Boolean , or Double . So Kotlin primitive values should be cast to and from NSNumber manually . Strings When a Kotlin String is passed to Swift, it's first exported as an Objective-C object, and then the Swift compiler copies it one more time for a Swift conversion. This results in additional runtime overhead. To avoid that, access Kotlin strings in Swift directly as an Objective-C NSString instead. See the conversion example . NSMutableString NSMutableString Objective-C class is not available from Kotlin. All instances of NSMutableString are copied when passed to Kotlin. Collections Kotlin -&gt; Objective-C -&gt; Swift When a Kotlin collection is passed to Swift, it's first converted to an Objective-C equivalent, and then the Swift compiler copies the entire collection and converts it into a Swift-native collection as described in the mappings table . <p id="-be3
