Returns one or more keychain items that match a search query, or copies attributes of specific keychain items.
A dictionary that describes the search. A typical 
query
 dictionary consists of:
The item’s class.
 Specify the kind of item you want, for example a password, a certificate, or a cryptographic key, using one of the class values in 
.
Attributes.
 Narrow the search by indicating the attributes that the found item or items should have. The more attributes you specify, the more refined the results, but not all attributes apply to all item classes. For the attributes applicable to the keychain item you’re searching for, see the entry for the item’s class in 
.
Search parameters.
 Condition the search in a variety of ways. For example, you can limit the results to a specific number of items, control case sensitivity when matching string attributes, or search only among a particular set of items. See 
 for the complete list of possible search parameters.
One or more return types.
 Use the keys found in 
 to indicate whether you seek the item’s attributes, the item’s data, a reference to the data, a persistent reference to the data, or a combination of these. When you specify more than one return type, the search returns a dictionary containing each of the types you request. When your search allows multiple results, they’re all returned together in an array of items.
On return, a reference to the found items. The exact type of the result depends on the return type values supplied in 
query
, as discussed in 
.
A result code. See 
.
By default, this function returns only the first match found. To obtain more than one matching item at a time, specify the search key 
 with a value greater than 
1
. The 
result
 is a 
 containing up to that number of matching items.

 
You can’t combine the 
 and 
 options when copying password items (items of class 
 or 
), because copying each password item could require additional authentication. Instead, request a reference or persistent reference to the items, then request the data for only the specific passwords that you actually require.
By default, this function searches for items in the keychain. To instead provide your own set of items to filter with the 
query
, specify the search key 
 and provide as its value a 
 object containing items of type 
, 
, 
, or 
. The objects in the provided array must all be of the same type.
To limit a keychain search to a particular keychain or keychains, specify the search key 
 and provide as its value a 
 object containing items of type 
 items.
To convert from persistent item references to normal item references, specify the search key 
 with a value that consists of an object of type 
 referencing an array containing one or more elements of type 
 (the persistent references), and a return-type key of 
 whose value is 
. The objects in the provided array must all be of the same type.
When you use Xcode to create an application, Xcode adds an 
application-identifier
 entitlement to the application bundle. Keychain Services uses this entitlement to grant the application access to its own keychain items. You can also add a 
 to the application, specifying an array of keychain access groups to which the application belongs. When you call the 
 function to add an item to the keychain, you can specify the access group to which that item should belong. By default, the 
 function searches all the access groups to which the application belongs. However, you can add the 
 key to the search dictionary to specify which access group to search for keychain items.
SecItemCopyMatching
 blocks the calling thread, so it can cause your app’s UI to hang if called from the main thread. Instead, call 
SecItemCopyMatching
 from a background dispatch queue or 
async
 function:
