Overview
A build configuration file is a plain-text file you use to specify the
 
build settings for a specific target or your entire project. Build
 
configuration files make it easier to manage build settings yourself,
 
and to change build settings automatically for different architectures and
 
platforms. With a build configuration file, you place only the settings you
 
want to modify in a text file. You can create multiple files,
 
each with different combinations of build settings, and you can change the
 
settings quickly for your target or project. Xcode layers your settings on
 
top of other project-related settings to create the final build configuration.
Build configuration files are particularly useful in the following situations:
You want different build settings based on the current platform, architecture, or build type.
You want to store build settings in a way that is easier to inspect.
You want to edit build settings outside of Xcode.
For more information about how build configuration files integrate with your project’s other settings values, see 
.
Add a build configuration file to your project
A build configuration file is a text file with an 
 filename extension
 
that you add to your project. You can create as many build configuration files
 
as you want, and you configure different settings in each one. For example,
 
you might use one build configuration file for debug settings and another
 
for release settings.
To create a build configuration file:
Select File > New File.
Select Configuration Settings File.
Click Next.
Enter a name and location for your build configuration file.
Deselect all targets to prevent Xcode from embedding the file as a resource
 
in the target’s bundle.
Click Create to add it to your project.
Map build settings to a build configuration
You can specify different build configuration files for debug and release builds,
 
and you can layer configuration files on top of other settings. To
 
specify build configuration files:
Select your project in the project editor.
Click the Info tab.
Click the disclosure triangles to expand the Debug and Release build
 
configurations in the Configurations area.
Choose configuration settings files for your Debug and Release builds
 
from the pop-up menus. You can also select a file that applies to both build types.
Xcode applies settings from a build configuration file before the corresponding
 
settings from the project’s or target’s Build Settings tab. For example, if you
 
provide a build configuration file for your target, Xcode applies the project settings,
 
then the build configuration settings, then the target settings.
For more information about the order in which Xcode applies settings,
 
see 
.
Assign a value to a setting
To specify a new value for a setting, add that setting to your configuration file
 
using the following format:
Place each setting on a separate line, and include only the settings you want
 
to change in your build configuration file. Xcode ignores leading and trailing
 
spaces, so you can indent settings as needed. If you add the same setting multiple
 
times, Xcode uses the last instance of the setting and ignores previous instances.
Many value types are possible for settings, but the following table lists the
 
most common ones:
Value type
Description
A value of 
 or 
.
A text string.
A predefined text string. See the settings reference for a list of valid values.
A space-separated list of 
 values. If a string within the list contains spaces, surround that string with quotes.
A file or directory path, in POSIX form.
A space-separated list of 
 values. If a path within the list contains spaces, surround the path with quotes.
Some examples of settings include:
For a list of build settings, see 
.
Augment a setting with additional values
In some cases, you might want to extend a setting rather than overwrite
 
its current value. For example, you might want to add more flags to a
 
compiler instead of replacing the existing flags. To extend a setting’s
 
existing value, add the 
 keyword to the value of your
 
setting, as shown in the following example:
Refer to the value of another setting
To reuse an existing build setting’s value, place the name of the
 
setting in a string of the form 
. When evaluating
 
your build settings, Xcode replaces these references with the values
 
of the corresponding settings. For example, the following definition
 
assigns the value of the 
 build setting to the 

 
setting:
When replacing references, Xcode inserts the setting’s value at the
 
same location as the original reference. You can insert references
 
in the middle of a new value, or you can define a setting using multiple other
 
values, as shown in the following examples:
Apply a setting conditionally to a platform or architecture
Add a conditional expression after a build setting to apply that
 
setting only when a specific platform or architecture is active.
 
To specify a conditional expression, enclose it in square brackets
 
after the build setting name, as shown in the following example:
Xcode applies a build setting only when the setting’s conditional expression
 
evaluates to true. Xcode supports the following conditions:
Condition
Values
An SDK, such as 
 or 
. To match all versions of a specific platform, replace the version number with an asterisk (*). For example, specify 
 to match any macOS SDK.
A CPU architecture, such as 
 or 
.
The build configuration, such as 
 or 
.
To add multiple conditions to the same build setting, place each
 
condition in separate brackets after that setting’s name, as shown
 
in the following example:
Include settings from other build configuration files
When you specify the build configuration file for your target, you
 
must select only one file, but that file can include settings from
 
other configuration files. To import the settings from a different
 
configuration file, add an 
 statement:
If Xcode can’t find an included build configuration file, it generates
 
build warnings. To suppress these warnings, add a question mark (?)
 
to the 
 command, as shown in the following example:
Xcode looks for included build configuration files in the same
 
directory as the current file. If your build configuration file
 
is in a different directory, specify a relative path or an absolute
 
path, as shown in the following examples:
Add comments to your settings
Add comments to your build configuration files to include notes or
 
other information that’s relevant to you. Specify your comments on
 
a single line preceded by two forward slashes (
). The build system
 
ignores everything from the comment delimiter to the end of the
 
current line. For example:
You can also place a comment at the end of a line that contains a build
 
setting definition, as in the following example: